---
layout: post 
title: A-maze-in' q
author: james
categories: projects
tags: [kdb+/q]
image: garden-maze.jpg 
subtitle: Programming Mazes in q/kdb+
---
### **{{page.subtitle}}**

#### A long backstory
When I was younger, I always loved when restaurants would provide coloring sheets and crayons to the kids *(because who wants to listen to adults talk about boring stuff like data structures and programming languages anyway?)*. As soon as the waitress put down the crayons, I quickly snatched up the best colors; my brothers could use them when I was done! 

These simple sheets were a massive source of entertainment to a young child. With plenty of space to scribble, color, and play games like tic-tac-toe or word search, I guess you could call it the 2000's version of the iPad.

After claiming the best crayons at the table, my next task was always the maze; for some reason it always caught my attention first. The first time through I would go with a blue crayon, tracing the optimal path, cauious not to make any mistakes. Then again with the blue crayon, this time filling the whole path with color instead of the awkward, shaky line that preceded it. Finally, a third time, with red, filling all of the deceitful, dead-end paths that I did not take. Perfect... if only there were more.

Fast forward to 2010, when the blockbuster film 'Inception' first came out. What was the key topic?
 <center><strong> Mazes </strong></center>
Don't worry, I am not going to spoil the movie for you, even if you _are_ 12 years late to the party. 

In the film there is a bright young mind, Ariadne, who takes a lead role in the film and has an amazing ability to create and solve mazes. What an amazing thought, that if I could create as solve mazes like Ariadne I could be swept into this elobrate life with high-stakes life or death situations, incredible cast of friends and big payday at the end of it all (sorry, too much of a spoiler?). 

This was not the case.

But I did start to build my own mazes from scratch. Armed with just a pencil and graphing paper, I would start by 